Document export compiled dependencies into a different format (#207)
microsoft/vcpkg-docs: vcpkg/produce/export-compiled-dependencies.md

---
title: "Tutorial: Export compiled dependencies"
description: In this tutorial we show you how to export compiled dependencies to be consumed by another project.
author: JavierMatosD
ms.author: Javiermat
ms.date: 11/06/2023
ms.prod: vcpkg
ms.topic: tutorial
# CustomerIntent: As an advanced vcpkg user I want to export compiled dependencies to be consumed by another project.
---

# Tutorial: Export compiled dependencies

In this tutorial, we'll walk through how to export compiled dependencies using vcpkg. This can be particularly useful when you want to share libraries across multiple projects or for ease of distribution.

## Prerequisites:

- [Visual Studio](<https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/>) with C++ development workload and [CMake component](</cpp/build/cmake-projects-in-visual-studio#installation>)
- [Git](<https://git-scm.com/downloads>)
* vcpkg
* A terminal

## 1 - Install `fmt` library

> Begin by opening your terminal and navigating to the directory where vcpkg is installed. Once there, install the `fmt` library for your target platform:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open a terminal and navigate to the directory where vcpkg is installed then install the `fmt` library for your target platform:
```

```console
vcpkg install fmt:x64-windows
```

> Replace `x64-windows` with your specific target triplet if different.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace `x64-windows` with your target triplet.
```

## 2 - Export `fmt` library

> After installing `fmt`, you can export it by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After installing `fmt`, export it by running:
```

```console
vcpkg export fmt:x64-windows --zip
```

> You should see something similar to the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see output similar to the following:
```

```console
The following packages are already built and will be exported:
    fmt:x64-windows
  * vcpkg-cmake:x64-windows

>   * vcpkg-cmake-config:x64-windows

Reviewer 2: Aren't host dependencies useless in this case?
As far as I know they're only supposed to be used during the build of a port but here the port is already built.

Additional packages (*) need to be exported to complete this operation.
Exporting vcpkg-cmake:x64-windows...
Exporting vcpkg-cmake-config:x64-windows...
Exporting fmt:x64-windows...
Creating zip archive...
Zip archive exported at: C:\dev\vcpkg\vcpkg-export-20231106-164550.zip
To use exported libraries in CMake projects, add -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=[...]/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake to your CMake command line.
```

> This command will create a zip archive containing all the necessary files to use the `fmt` library, including binaries and headers. For a list of all the supported formats check out the reference [documentation](../commands/export.md#formats).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command creates a zip archive containing all the necessary files to use the `fmt` library, including binaries and headers. For a list of all the supported formats check out the [`export` command documentation](../commands/export.md#formats).
```
